Introduce GraphQL Server-side Caching (#1735)
ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-graphql: docs/spec/spec.md

        * 7.1.6 [Service Interceptors](#716-service-interceptors)
        * 7.1.7 [Introspection Configurations](#717-introspection-configurations)
        * 7.1.8 [Constraint Configurations](#718-constraint-configurations)

>         * 7.1.9 [Operation Cache Configurations](#719-operation-cache-configurations)

Reviewer: Shall we use the terms, `operation-level` and `field-level` caching?

```suggestion
        * 7.1.9 [Operation-level Cache Configurations](#719-operation-cache-configurations)
```

            * 7.1.9.1 [The `enabled` Field](#7191-the-enabled-field)
            * 7.1.9.2 [The `maxAge` Field](#7192-the-maxage-field)
            * 7.1.9.3 [The `maxSize` Field](#7193-the-maxsize-field)
    * 7.2 [Resource Configuration](#72-resource-configuration)
        * 7.2.1 [Field Interceptors](#721-field-interceptors)
        * 7.2.2 [Prefetch Method Name Configuration](#722-prefetch-method-name-configuration)

>         * 7.2.3 [Field Cache Configurations](#723-field-cache-configuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * 7.2.3 [Field-level Cache Configurations](#723-field-cache-configuration)
```

}
```

#### 7.1.9 Operation Cache Configurations

> The `cacheConfig` field is used to provide the GraphQL operation cache configuration to enable the caching for `query` operations.

Reviewer: Check similar places.

```suggestion
The `cacheConfig` field is used to provide the GraphQL operation-level cache configuration to enable the caching for `query` operations.
```

###### Example: Operation Cache Configurations

```ballerina
@graphql:ServiceConfig {
    cacheConfig: {
        enabled: true,
        maxAge: 60,

>         maxSize: 120

Reviewer: These are all default values. Shall we use other values? We may move the enable cache with default values to the top, and put an example of overriding default values next.

    }
}
service on new graphql:Listener(9090) {
    // ...
}
```

###### Example: Enable Operation Cache with Default Values

```ballerina
@graphql:ServiceConfig {
    cacheConfig: {}
}
service on new graphql:Listener(9090) {
    // ...
}
```

> ##### 7.1.9.1 The `enabled` Field

Reviewer: Use the markdown linter. 

```suggestion
##### 7.1.9.1 The `enabled` Field

```

}
```

#### 7.1.9 Operation-level Cache Configurations

> The `cacheConfig` field is used to provide the operation-level cache configuration to enable the [GraphQL caching](#107-caching) for `query` operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cacheConfig` field is used to provide the operation-level cache configuration to enable the [GraphQL caching](#10711-operation-level-caching) for `query` operations.
```

###### Example: Enable Operation-level Cache with Default Values

```ballerina
@graphql:ServiceConfig {
    cacheConfig: {}
}
service on new graphql:Listener(9090) {
    // ...
}
```

###### Example: Operation-level Cache Configurations

```ballerina
@graphql:ServiceConfig {
    cacheConfig: {

>         enabled: false

Reviewer: `enable: false` does not make sense here, right?

}
```

#### 7.2.3 Field-level Cache Configuration

> The `cacheConfig` field is used to provide the field-level cache configs. The fields are as same as the operation cache configs.

Reviewer: Let's add an anchor here as well. Better to link to the specific section, instead of linking to the top-level cache topic.

dataloader:DataLoader authorLoader = context.getDataLoader("authorLoader");
```

##### 10.1.1.6 Evict Cache from Context

> To evict a cache entry from the server-side caching, the `invalidate` method can be used. It requires one parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `invalidate()` method can be used to evict cache entries from the cache that are related to a particular field. It requires one parameter:
```

```

The above example utilizes three DataLoader instances: `postsLoader`, `rePostsLoader`, and `followersLoader`. These DataLoaders are associated with the batch load functions `postsLoaderFunction`, `rePostsLoaderFunction`, and `followersLoaderFunction`. The 'post' field in the example utilizes the `postsLoader` and `rePostsLoader` DataLoaders, while the 'followers' field utilizes the `followersLoader` DataLoader. This demonstrates how different fields can utilize specific DataLoaders to efficiently load and retrieve related data in GraphQL resolvers.

### 10.7 Caching

This section describes the caching mechanisms in the Ballerina GraphQL module.

#### 10.7.1 Server-side Caching

> The Ballerina GraphQL module offers built-in server-side caching for GraphQL `query` operations. The caching operates as in-memory caching, implemented using the Ballerina cache module. The GraphQL module generates cache keys based on the arguments and the path. In server-side caching, the `errors` and `null` values are skipped when caching. There are two different ways called `operation caching` and `field caching` to enable server-side caching.

Reviewer: How does the pluggable cache work here?

Author: Since we are yet implement the distributed caching, it's not added to the spec.

Reviewer: I think it is quite straightforward. We have to have a separate field to provide `cache:Cache` object with a custom implementation. Will it take more time to implement this? If that's not the case, I'd add that feature here as well.

Author: But we focused on in-memory caching with the proposal, which added distributed caching as a non-goal. It may takes time and we can handle it separately.

### 10.7 Caching

This section describes the caching mechanisms in the Ballerina GraphQL module.

#### 10.7.1 Server-side Caching

The Ballerina GraphQL module offers built-in server-side caching for GraphQL `query` operations. The caching operates as in-memory caching, implemented using the Ballerina cache module. The GraphQL module generates cache keys based on the arguments and the path. In server-side caching, the `errors` and `null` values are skipped when caching. There are two different ways called `operation-level caching` and `field-level caching` to enable server-side caching.

##### 10.7.1.1 Operation-level Caching

Operation-level caching can be used to cache the entire operation, and this can be enabled by providing the [operation cache configurations](#719-operation-level-cache-configurations). Once enabled, the GraphQL server initiates caching for all subfields of `query` operations. The fields requested through query operations will be cached based on the specified cache configurations

##### 10.7.1.2 Field-level Caching

> The GraphQL field-level caching can be enabled only for a specific field. This can be done by providing the [field cache configurations](#723-field-level-cache-configuration). Once the field-level caching is enabled for a field, it will be applied to the sub-fields of that field.

Reviewer: Let's mention here that field-level cache configs can be used to override the configs from the parents.

```ballerina
public isolated function invalidateAll() returns error? {}
```

###### Example: Operation-level Cache Enabling and Eviction

```ballerina
import ballerina/graphql;

@graphql:ServiceConfig {
    cacheConfig: {
        enabled: true,
        maxAge: 50
    }
}
service /graphql on new graphql:Listener(9090) {
    private string name = "Ballerina GraphQL";
    private string 'type = "code first";

    resource function get name() returns string {
        return self.name;
    }

    resource function get 'type() returns string {
        return self.'type;
    }

    remote function updateName(graphql:Context context, string name) returns string|error {
        check context.invalidate("name");
        self.name = name
        return self.name;
    }
}
```

In this example, caching is enabled at the operation level. Therefore, the field `name` and `type` will be cached. When updating the name with a mutation, the cached values become invalid. Hence, the `invalidate` function can be used to evict the existing cache values.

> ###### Example: Field-level Cache Enabling and Eviction

Reviewer: Let's add another example with overriding top-level cache configurations using resource-level cache config value.

        }
        return from Friend friend in self.friends
            where friend.isMarried == false
            select new Person(friend.name, friend.age, isMarried);
    }

    isolated remote function updateAge(graphql:Context context, string name, int age) returns Person|error {
        check context.invalidate("friends.age");
        Friend friend = self.friends.get(name);
        self.friends.put({name: name, age: age, isMarried: friend.isMarried});
        return new Person(name, age, friend.isMarried);
    }
}

public isolated distinct service class Person {
    private final string name;
    private final int age;
    private final boolean isMarried;

    public isolated function init(string name, int age, boolean isMarried) {
        self.name = name;
        self.age = age;
        self.isMarried = isMarried;
    }

    isolated resource function get name() returns string {
        return self.name;
    }

    @graphql:ResourceConfig {
        cacheConfig: {
            enabled: true,
            maxAge 20
        }
    }
    isolated resource function get age() returns int {
        return self.age;
    }

>     isolated resource function get isMarried() returns boolean {

Reviewer: Maybe we can use another cache config here to disable caching for this field. (Let's use comments to describe the behavior as well).
